# YC Application

hackEDU's nonprofit YC application for W15.

### Application

**Organization name**

hackEDU

**Organization url, if any**

https://hackedu.us

**If you have an online demo, what's the url?**

N/A

**What will your organization do?**

HackEDU is a nonprofit organization that helps high school students start and
lead programming clubs at their schools.

Through in person and Google Hangout training, immersive retreats, mock
teaching sessions, and shared wikis, hackEDU equips club organizers with
essential organizational skills, such as community building, detail oriented
planning, and fundraising. Additionally, we maintain partnerships with
companies, curriculum providers, online software tools, and hackathons to
provide the best materials, tools, and events, free of charge, to students in
our program.

**Where do you live now, and where would the organization be based after YC?**

I currently operate out of San Francisco and will continue to run hackEDU out
of the Bay Area for the foreseeable future.

**Email address we should contact you at**

zach@hackedu.us

**Phone number(s)**

[redacted]

**Please enter the url of a 1 minute unlisted (not private) YouTube video
introducing the founders.**

http://youtu.be/uTyn-ljKlyw

**Please provide the Hacker News username and email address for each founder in
the startup. We will send an email to each founder to fill out additional
information about themselves.**

zachlatta - zach@hackedu.us

**Please tell us about an interesting project, preferably outside of class or
work, that two or more of you created together. Include urls if possible.**

While at PennApps, the University of Pennsylvania’s student hackathon, I
created an integrated development environment for iOS apps that runs in any
browser. iOS development has a high barrier to entry because of the associated
costs, but my solution enables anyone to do it, even from a Chromebook. Out of
nearly 250 submissions, my application took first place and the best user
experience prize.

Demo: http://youtu.be/TjizJRxnUHo?t=42m24s

**How long have the founders known one another and how did you meet? Have any
of the founders not met in person?**

Single founder.

**How far along are you?**

I ran a pilot with 7 schools in 6 states last semester and am currently running
an extended pilot with 30 schools this semester.

**If you've already started working on it, how long have you been working and
how many lines of code (if applicable) have you written?**

I’ve been working on hackEDU since February 2013 part-time and started working
on it full-time in September. The website has 800 lines of code and the
students in our clubs have generated over 15,000 lines of code.

**If you've applied previously with the same idea, how much progress have you
made since the last time you applied? Anything change?**

In the last application, I had just started our first pilot with 7 schools.
Since then, I’ve expanded our program to 30 schools, consisting of 350 students
weekly.

**Which of the following best describes your progress?**

Private beta.

**When will you have a prototype or beta?**

It's running! I started our expanded pilot in September of 2014.

**How many users do you have?**

I am working with 30 schools that reach a total of 350 students each week.

**Do you have revenue?**

No.

**How much revenue?**

N/A

**What is your monthly growth rate? (in users or revenue or both)**

HackEDU’s user base has been growing by 46% monthly since the first club joined
in January of 2013.

I’m currently focused on iterating on hackEDU’s model by working closely with
each club and growing its community. I’ve been talking with schools for our
current beta since March and onboarded 24 of the 30 schools this September. I
onboarded the other 6 of the 30 periodically through Spring 2014.

**Why did you pick this idea to work on? Do you have domain expertise in this
area? How do you know this is going to work?**

Teaching people to code is part of my DNA, I’ve been doing it since I was in
the 3rd grade.  When I entered high school, I started a programming club
because my school didn’t offer any computer science courses. During the 1st
year, I helped 15 students learn to program. By the end of the 2nd year, the
students in my club launched games on the Android Play Store, won high-profile
hackathons, founded a web design firm that landed real clients, and secured
over $30,000 in investment. Having access to a community of other programmers
made an immense impact in lives of the students in my club, and I want to scale
that experience to every aspiring student programmer on the planet.

9 in 10 schools in the US don't have CS education. The 1 in 10 that do tend to
sterilize the power of it because students rarely have the chance to build
things they care about. This ends up resulting in the opposite of hacker
culture, which stifles creativity, agency, and excitement.

Being 16, I am the age of the target demographic, and this is the best time to
do it because this is the first generation of kids that grew up with the App
Store. We don’t need to convince people that it's cool to build and put
something onto their phones.

**What's new about what you plan to do?**

Other similar organizations, such as TEALS, ScriptEd, and Google’s CS First,
generally interface with students through teachers or administration. This is a
problem because teachers tend to be non-technical and don’t understand hacker
culture. This leads to a lot of red tape, bureaucracy, and mandated fixed
curriculum, which ultimately disconnects with students and becomes ineffective.

At hackEDU, we interface with students directly through students. This works
because many students reach out to us instead of the organization having to
reach out to a school to start a club. Because these students are generally
already technical and often involved in hacker culture, it allows us to onboard
new schools significantly easier and have students build projects they care
about instead being forced through a fixed curriculum.

We do recognize that there are drawbacks as well: students’ schedules can be
extremely packed, leading to fickle attendance, but we only need a single
dedicated student to form a successful programming club. Judging from
enrollment in student-led organizations like Key Club International, which has
5,000 clubs and a total of 267,000 members, there are likely thousands of
students who will take initiative out there.

**Have you incorporated, or formed any legal entity (like an LLC) yet?**

Yes.

**What kind of entity and in what state or country was the entity formed?**

HackEDU is incorporated in the state of Delaware as a non-profit corporation.

**If you're already incorporated, when were you? If you've had funding, how
much and from whom?**

HackEDU was incorporated in January of 2013. I won a hackathon and part of the
prize was a $5,000 donation from Oink to hackEDU.

**Have you obtained your 501(c)(3) tax-exempt status yet?**

No.

**Please provide any other relevant information about the structure or
formation of the company.**

N/A

**Are any of the following true?**

* You are the only founder.
* You are a student who may return to school when the next term starts.
* Half or more of your group can't move to the Bay Area.
* One or more founders will keep their current jobs.

Yes.

**If you had any other ideas you considered applying with, please list them.
One may be something we've been waiting for.**

**Please tell us something surprising or amusing that one of you has
discovered. (The answer need not be related to your project.)**

Running `fortune | cowsay | lolcat` in most shells speaks volumes of truth.

### Founder Profiles

#### Zach Latta

**Name**

Zach Latta

**Email Address**

zach@hackedu.us

**Age**

16

**Gender**

Male

**Schools, Degrees and Years of Graduation**

* El Segundo High School, 2014
* West Los Angeles College, N/A

**Employers, Position / Titles and Dates**

* Yo, Lead Backend Engineer, July 2014 - September 2014
* Grasp, Technical Lead, June 2013 - January 2014
* Run Games, Junior Programmer, February 2013 - February 2014

**Personal website**

http://zachlatta.com

**Github URL**

https://github.com/zachlatta

**Linkedin URL**

Don’t have one.

**Facebook URL**

https://facebook.com/crynix

**Twitter URL**

https://twitter.com/zachlatta

**Please tell us about the time you most successfully hacked some
(non-computer) system to your advantage.**

I hacked my high school education. I exploited a loophole in the California
K-12 education system to get twice the credits in half the time. College
credits count for twice the amount of high school credits and for core classes,
like language, count for four times the credits. By taking college level
classes full-time, I could have graduated in two years—but I ended up testing
out anyway in one and a half instead.

**Please tell us in one or two sentences about the most impressive thing other
than this startup that you have built or achieved.**

In my freshman year of high school, I joined Run Games as the first employee
and brought our game from an early prototype to launching in the App Store and
getting over one million users. We reached #5 in the top free charts, #1 in
games, #1 in sports, #1 in arcade, and were featured by Apple on the front page
of the App Store.

**Will you live in the Bay Area January through March 2015, if we fund you?**

Yes.

**Will you commit to working exclusively on this project for the next year?**

Yes.

**If no, why not? What level of commitment are you willing to make?**

**Do you have any other commitments between January through March 2015
inclusive?**

No.

**Do you have any commitments in the future and if so what?**

No.
